doc: sequencer relayer spec (#296)
astriaorg/astria: specs/relayer.md

# Astria Sequencer Relayer

> The Astria Sequencer Relayer (referred to as relayer from here on out), reads

Reviewer: maybe add a quick line explicitly explaining why we need the relayer; ie "data sequenced by the sequencer chain needs to be written to a data availability layer; this has been separated from the core sequencer node functionality into its own relayer program" or something like that

> The Astria Sequencer Relayer (referred to as relayer from here on out), reads
> new blocks from the sequencer, pushes them to the gossipnet which Conductor
> listens on, and writes batches sets of blocks to DA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Astria Sequencer Relayer (referred to as relayer from here on out) reads
new blocks from the sequencer, publishes them to the gossipnet which Conductor
listens on, and writes batches sets of blocks to DA.
```

> It is run as a sidecar to a sequencer proposer, and each instance only
> relays/writes data from its proposer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is run as a sidecar to a sequencer validator node, and each instance only
relays/writes data from blocks it proposes.
```

## Interfaces

### Sequencer

Relayer fetches new blocks from the CometBFT consensus node of the sequencer
using [CometBFT's Block RPC](https://docs.cometbft.com/v0.37/spec/rpc/#block)
with the `height` set to null to grab the latest block. This returns the latest
proposed block, which is not fully finalized by the sequencer network yet.

### P2P/Gossipnet

> Note: The P2P/gossipnet may be removed/replaced by an alternate model in the
> future. It's known that this is heavyweight and is propagating data to all
> rollups which they are not all interested in.

After receiving a block from the sequencer, if it is signed by the relayer's

> proposer, it is converted into the `SequencerBlockData` shape

Reviewer: ```suggestion
validator key, it is converted into the `SequencerBlockData` structure
```

([link](https://github.com/astriaorg/astria/blob/7ebb743ed6f1d9eef69372f2cbb4ab9cbe2668b3/crates/astria-sequencer-types/src/sequencer_block_data.rs#L39-L46)).
This object is then pushed to the libp2p "gossipnet" network, for execution by
rollups. This contains information for execution by all rollups. 

### Data Availability

Relayer also writes data to Celestia DA. Since Astria block times can be much
faster than Celestia block times, we create a queue of yet to be written blocks.
`SequencerBlockData` is added to a queue for DA write after being pushed to the
P2P layer.

A collection of blobs is written in one transaction to DA. For each Astria block
there are 1 + N blobs written to Celestia, where N is the number of rollups who

> have transactions in the Astria block. All of these are serialized to JSON and

Reviewer: > JSON

this will be changed to proto soon
